	We rode all through the day, that third day out from Maphlamar, rising before dawn and halting at dusk, lighting fires and raising tents in the haze of darkening sky. The soldiers sang songs of longing in the evening atop knolls of grass and dormant niaphyrs and zeiphyrs and extoled songs of love in the morning as those flowers of flaming orange and royal blue budded across the plains, painting life across a once dead winter's landscape. After our fourth day, we had passed from the county Drake into the county Floyde, within which the city Clate ruled the land. By our sixth day away from Maphlamar, the easternmost hyls of the Maphyk ridgeline broke the horizon, lifting the land upwards to meet the sky higher than she ought, higher than any else may dare. Atop their peaks, wars for the dictature of celestia and soil waged their bloody toll upon many figures of old antiquity in the wide canon of the monomyth. 
	I knew some of those tales, passed to me by my brother or by the Kraiark Hesseh or my tutors of history or tongue, but many more had passed through the ages of time without ever crossing my knowledge. The library of Maphlamar had been nothing of which to boast, a quaint apparatus even by Maphlian standards. Clate had a fine library with a respectable count of original works as well as a plethora of copied scrolls and slates of works from across the hylvanne and even further. Yet even Clate stood no match to the libraries of Ecumenycal path. 
	"How many of the city temples have you been to?" I asked the Kraiark Hesseh on the morning of the seventh day, our last before reaching Clate. 
	"Only four," he replied, voice strained from long years of use and yet hardened by time. "And only one of those four did I spend much time at all. I was trained at the nedia in Khoratzch, where the temple of the Raven Mother stands tall atop the summit of the Hyl'nuizt Eltzi which overlooks the great valley of shentz from its northernmost finger. From the valley, you cannot even see the towers of her krypt, but what a structure Khoratzch is! I do anticipate having many stories with which to regale you when we reach the Raven's nest. The other three I have merely passed through on my journey to the station of my calling in Maphlamar-- much the same journey we now take, but reciprocated in its destiny. Of Yhlgrym and Drazihaim, I must confess I remember little, for such was it so many years ago and so short a time I walked beneath their walls that this old crown of mine weighs the task of pulling any thoughts from the wellspring of my mind, but so is not the same for Atzchaim, dear Aiden. As you will come to know when we reach that city of greatness, no man nor boy nor woman or girl may pass beneath the walls of Atzchaim and ever forget her grandeur. Picture it, young Aiden! A nedia cloistered by ten walls and by ten towers to ten krypts for ten beyonds. I know not a sight that can compare to that,"
	"What of the library?"
	"Library... library... ah! Yes, the library of Atzchaim! A sight. Truly a sight," I waited for Hesseh to elaborate, but the man seemed to have lost himself in some recess of his mind. Hesseh's tendency to lose himself in thought had less to do with the man's age than it did with his own nature. He had passed fifty years of age many years prior, but as long as he had instructed me in the lessons of the Raven Mother and teachings of the Monolgi, I had struggled to parse his lessons from his ramble and struggled even more to read his mind when all lessons and ramblings halted upon that enthrall which captured his being and wrapped his own thoughts around his mouth as a muzzle. Hesseh bore largely Vhinhili features, brown skin and short, thick hair, graying at its sides, and a full beard. He wore the long heavy robes of his station as an Ecumenycal Kraiark of Khaska, thick, sand wool, trimmed with gold and embroidered with a checkering of ravens and trees. 
	"What do you know of the city temple of Ptorm?" I asked him after many a moment. 
	"Ah, yes, your future home, young Aiden, is it not?"
	"Strange it seems to have a Polipolyssian Line rule over the same city as does the Ecumenci, no?"
	"Thus does my pupil finally grasp at the nature of these foreign lands to which he will be sent. Thus does he finally long for knowledge not his own, and strive for understanding beyond his surroundings,"
	"Have I not before ever strived for such understanding of which you speak, Hesseh? I believe every day I strive to understand that which must fill your mind and yet never escape its walls,"
	He laughed and continued, "Aiden, to understand the lands upon which we walk, you must recognize that the relationship between the Ecumenci and the Polipolys of the hylvanne are of a different category than those of the lands to the west and north. Between the Great Path and Maphlamar, or Hila, or Ebynshor, or Penhyla stretch many leagues of mountain and gorge and treacheries untold, but the Polipolys of the Atzch'shentzli and the Atzchptorm and even the mountain clans rest well within the influence of any number of city temples along the Path. The power you recognize in the might of your father's Line or the Lines of Clate lies distinct from the Ecumenci, but such is not true for power of Vhinhelm and Ptorm. The lands west of the Ridge may feel more foreign to you than you expect,"
	"Is not that why I have you by my side, Hesseh? To prepare me for these foreign lands of the Path?"
	"In a manner, yes. In other manners, no. Some lessons you must learn on your own. Yet I can help prepare you in some ways. Your mother always forbade me from teaching you the Ecumene tongue, for reasons her own, but now that we travel the path, you must learn its ways and learn them quickly, lest the Kraiark of the nedia tangle your mind with words designed to trap you in your own folly. It is a language of vipers, and venom seeps through its words,"
	Hesseh spoke of understanding even as his own words only served to confuse me further. This tongue of the Ecumene, I knew of. It took much from the tongue of the Yhlgori but borrowed from other sources also, yet I had never heard anyone, not even Hesseh himself, describe it with such vitriol, as if the tongue itself bore within it a moral designature unspoken by all who spoke it. And why had my mother forbidden me from learning it until now? Perhaps she too saw some malice in its very design? I could not say. 
	"Then when shall we begin?" I asked.
	"We can begin now, should you like, Nivaer," I nodded in approval, "Two things you must know of Ecumene before all else. One: it is a greedy tongue, taking many words from many soruces and changing their meanings to suit its own design. Two: each word in the Ecumene tongue lives in opposition to some other word that is its mirror and its foil,"

	As the sun passed its zenith and began its descent towards the ridgeline, the walls and towers of city Clate built themsleves up from the rocks and the soil of the surrounding lanscape to form a wide bulwark around the base of the Hyl'viati, the easternmost ridge of the entire Maphyk range, before which the Bryn'vyn bent its eastward course north into the mountains. I had last visited Clate many years earlier for the wedding of my oldest sister, Elyssa, to the cousin of the Grymsol Penumbros, a man of the Line of Field named Thanyel, the son of the now dead Clayton, brother of Robert the Old who had dictated over Maphlia until his passing three years prior. The City's visage from the knolls to its north seemed smaller than I rememered it when I was child, though certainly such must have been only my memory aggrandizing it for me. Certainly, the towers of its krypt and library and the wide arches of the forum seemed a marvel, and the winding steps of ascent to the Pynumbral Palace atop the Knob of Hyl'viati boasted of magnificence, and the palace itself towered high into sky, but all my mind seemed to feel some strange disappointment that the city still rose not as tall and still spread not as wide as my memory had caused me to believe. 
	"It is said of Clate," Phylip said beside me, "When the sun rises, the Viati shines first and shines brightest. And when the sun sets, the Viati is swallowed in the deepest shadows of all," The sun had nearly passed beyond the mass of the Hyl'viati by then, and already, the words rang true. The lone mountain ridge, jutting far out from the ridgeline beyond, cast a dark shadow across the breadth of the city below, swallowing the bright blue of the sky above it in bed of barren rocks and wicked trees, barely visible in the darkness of the Viati's own mass. 
	"Hyl'viati, did you know," Samule began, "is the maphlian name for the ridge, but another existed once beside it. Long ago, when the Yhlgori held dominion over these lands, they saw this mountain and beheld its lonely glory. To honor this spectacle, they named the knob Massenah, an apt name, meaning 'one who stands alone'. It was the Yhlgori who built the city Clate, not the Maphyk, mind you, who resisted the Yhlgori conquest for many years, fighting from their stronghold in Maphlamar. Many times they fought back sieges from the south and forced back the invading conquererors, yet as much as they tried, the Maphyk kings of old could never storm the Viati keep. 
	"The Yhlgori who fought in their eastern campaign of the hylvanna were eventually cut off from all aid and supplies, surrounded, and forced to retreat to the fort atop Massenah. There they stood alone for half a year under siege before reinforcements finally arrived and routed the Maph." 
	One who stands alone, I thought, and suddenly Clate seemed not so small as once it had. Instead, I saw in it a largeness that stretched neither up nor out, but back. A city built not from the might of the peoples who now inhabited it, but the of empire that had conquered them, left them, and now been forgotten by them. Yet Massenah had left its mark all the same. Maphlamar was larger, the Seawalt saw more trade, Vlenen bore more natural riches and Hases was perhaps more beautiful than Clate, yet Clate ruled over them all, for it was Clate, not Maphlamar, or Seawalt, or Vlenen or Hases or Pheo or Iden or Corvus, where the Yhlgori stood alone and proved their right to rule. Now, that city was ruled not with strength, but weakness. 
	"How do you know these things, Samule?" I asked.
	"I have traveled many placed and heard many things," He replied, saying no more. 
	We approached the city's walls in darkness, passing by tilled fields ready for sowing and small villages for the farmers who tended them. Phylip sent a messenger forward to the wall to pass along word of our arrival. Just a mile beyond the city's limit, we crossed the Bryn'vyn over a narrow bridge of concrete and sandstone which extended several hundred feet across the Bryn's span. We could not see the river by the time we crossed it, but the rapids beneath us could not be mistaken. No river galleys could pass through the Bryn in these shallow waters. For river trade to reach Clate, it must travel upriver by foot from Myvus. Massenah, was Clate, Massenah, its fate. 
	The city's gate opened to us as our party neared, though no greeters or escort presented themselves to us but for two horsed guards that turned to lead us to the hyl's foot steps. We traveled through the city, rising higher and higher as we did, and in this regard, Clate reminded me of Maphlamar. Except the Hyl of Maphlamar eventually shallowed itself where the Massenah only kept climbing. Right atop the hyl's foot, stood the Khaska Krypt and the Library of Clate, which together enclosed the city's small nedia where Kraiarks taught language and law and history and monologi and where local sophyts came 
	

